Title: A Critical Assessment of Stellar Mass Measurement Methods
Authors: Bahram Mobasher, Tomas Dahlen, Henry C. Ferguson, Viviana Acquaviva, Guillermo Barro, Steven L. Finkelstein, Adriano Fontana, Ruth Gruetzbauch, Seth Johnson, Yu Lu, Casey J. Papovich, Janine Pforr, Mara Salvato, Rachel S. Somerville, Tommy Wiklind, Stijn Wuyts, Matthew L. N. Ashby, Eric Bell, Christopher J. Conselice, Mark E. Dickinson, Sandra M. Faber, Giovanni Fazio, Kristian Finlator, Audrey Galametz, Eric Gawiser, Mauro Giavalisco, Andrea Grazian, Norman A. Grogin, Yicheng Guo, Nimish Hathi, Dale Kocevski, Anton M. Koekemoer, David C. Koo, Jeffrey A. Newman, Naveen Reddy, Paola Santini, Risa H. Wechsler
Published: 2015-05-06 20:05:34+00:00
Updated: 2015-05-06 20:05:34+00:00
DOI: 10.1088/0004-637X/808/1/101
arXiv ID: http://arxiv.org/abs/1505.01501v1
arXiv URL: http://arxiv.org/pdf/1505.01501v1
Categories: astro-ph.GA
Author Position: 37

Abstract:
In this paper we perform a comprehensive study of the main sources of random
and systematic errors in stellar mass measurement for galaxies using their
Spectral Energy Distributions (SEDs). We use mock galaxy catalogs with
simulated multi-waveband photometry (from U-band to mid-infrared) and known
redshift, stellar mass, age and extinction for individual galaxies. Given
different parameters affecting stellar mass measurement (photometric S/N
ratios, SED fitting errors, systematic effects, the inherent degeneracies and
correlated errors), we formulated different simulated galaxy catalogs to
quantify these effects individually. We studied the sensitivity of stellar mass
estimates to the codes/methods used, population synthesis models, star
formation histories, nebular emission line contributions, photometric
uncertainties, extinction and age. For each simulated galaxy, the difference
between the input stellar masses and those estimated using different simulation
catalogs, $\Delta\log(M)$, was calculated and used to identify the most
fundamental parameters affecting stellar masses. We measured different
components of the error budget, with the results listed as follows: (1). no
significant bias was found among different codes/methods, with all having
comparable scatter; (2). A source of error is found to be due to photometric
uncertainties and low resolution in age and extinction grids; (3). The median
of stellar masses among different methods provides a stable measure of the mass
associated with any given galaxy; (4). The deviations in stellar mass strongly
correlate with those in age, with a weaker correlation with extinction; (5).
the scatter in the stellar masses due to free parameters are quantified, with
the sensitivity of the stellar mass to both the population synthesis codes and
inclusion of nebular emission lines studied.