Title: CANDELS: The Cosmic Assembly Near-infrared Deep Extragalactic Legacy Survey - The Hubble Space Telescope Observations, Imaging Data Products and Mosaics
Authors: Anton M. Koekemoer, S. M. Faber, Henry C. Ferguson, Norman A. Grogin, Dale D. Kocevski, David C. Koo, Kamson Lai, Jennifer M. Lotz, Ray A. Lucas, Elizabeth J. McGrath, Sara Ogaz, Abhijith Rajan, Adam G. Riess, Steve A. Rodney, Louis Strolger, Stefano Casertano, Marco Castellano, Tomas Dahlen, Mark Dickinson, Timothy Dolch, Adriano Fontana, Mauro Giavalisco, Andrea Grazian, Yicheng Guo, Nimish P. Hathi, Kuang-Han Huang, Arjen van der Wel, Hao-Jing Yan, Viviana Acquaviva, David M. Alexander Omar Almaini, Matthew L. N. Ashby, Marco Barden, Eric F. Bell, Frédéric Bournaud, Thomas M. Brown, Karina I. Caputi, Paolo Cassata, Peter Challis, Ranga-Ram Chary, Edmond Cheung, Michele Cirasuolo, Christopher J. Conselice, Asantha Roshan Cooray, Darren J. Croton, Emanuele Daddi, Romeel Davé, Duilia F. de Mello, Loic de Ravel, Avishai Dekel, Jennifer L. Donley, James S. Dunlop, Aaron A. Dutton, David Elbaz, Giovanni G. Fazio, Alex V. Filippenko, Steven L. Finkelstein, Chris Frazer, Jonathan P. Gardner, Peter M. Garnavich, Eric Gawiser, Ruth Gruetzbauch, Will G. Hartley, Boris Häussler, Jessica Herrington, Philip F. Hopkins, Jia-Sheng Huang, Saurabh Jha, Andrew Johnson, Jeyhan S. Kartaltepe, Ali Ahmad Khostovan, Robert P. Kirshner, Caterina Lani, Kyoung-Soo Lee, Weidong Li, Piero Madau, Patrick J. McCarthy, Daniel H. McIntosh, Ross J. McLure, Conor McPartland, Bahram Mobasher, Heidi Moreira, Alice Mortlock, Leonidas A. Moustakas, Mark Mozena, Kirpal Nandra, Jeffrey A. Newman, Jennifer L. Nielsen, Sami Niemi, Kai G. Noeske, Casey J. Papovich, Laura Pentericci, Alexandra Pope, Joel R. Primack, Swara Ravindranath, Naveen A. Reddy, Alvio Renzini, Hans-Walter Rix, Aday R. Robaina, David J. Rosario, Piero Rosati, Sara Salimbeni, Claudia Scarlata, Brian Siana, Luc Simard, Joseph Smidt, Diana Snyder, Rachel S. Somerville, Hyron Spinrad, Amber N. Straughn, Olivia Telford, Harry I. Teplitz, Jonathan R. Trump, Carlos Vargas, Carolin Villforth, Cory R. Wagner, Pat Wandro, Risa H. Wechsler, Benjamin J. Weiner, Tommy Wiklind, Vivienne Wild, Grant Wilson, Stijn Wuyts, Min S. Yun
Published: 2011-05-18 21:42:03+00:00
Updated: 2011-10-20 19:43:00+00:00
DOI: 10.1088/0067-0049/197/2/36
arXiv ID: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3754v2
arXiv URL: http://arxiv.org/pdf/1105.3754v2
Categories: astro-ph.CO
Author Position: 117

Abstract:
This paper describes the Hubble Space Telescope imaging data products and
data reduction procedures for the Cosmic Assembly Near-IR Deep Extragalactic
Legacy Survey (CANDELS). This survey is designed to document the evolution of
galaxies and black holes at $z\sim1.5-8$, and to study Type Ia SNe beyond
$z>1.5$. Five premier multi-wavelength sky regions are selected, each with
extensive multiwavelength observations. The primary CANDELS data consist of
imaging obtained in the Wide Field Camera 3 / infrared channel (WFC3/IR) and
UVIS channel, along with the Advanced Camera for Surveys (ACS). The
CANDELS/Deep survey covers \sim125 square arcminutes within GOODS-N and
GOODS-S, while the remainder consists of the CANDELS/Wide survey, achieving a
total of \sim800 square arcminutes across GOODS and three additional fields
(EGS, COSMOS, and UDS). We summarize the observational aspects of the survey as
motivated by the scientific goals and present a detailed description of the
data reduction procedures and products from the survey. Our data reduction
methods utilize the most up to date calibration files and image combination
procedures. We have paid special attention to correcting a range of
instrumental effects, including CTE degradation for ACS, removal of electronic
bias-striping present in ACS data after SM4, and persistence effects and other
artifacts in WFC3/IR. For each field, we release mosaics for individual epochs
and eventual mosaics containing data from all epochs combined, to facilitate
photometric variability studies and the deepest possible photometry. A more
detailed overview of the science goals and observational design of the survey
are presented in a companion paper.