Title: Probing galaxy evolution in massive clusters using ACT and DES: splashback as a cosmic clock
Authors: Susmita Adhikari, Tae-hyeon Shin, Bhuvnesh Jain, Matt Hilton, Eric Baxter, Chihway Chang, Risa H. Wechsler, Nick Battaglia, J. Richard Bond, Sebastian Bocquet, Joseph DeRose, Steve K. Choi, Mark Devlin, Jo Dunkley, August E. Evrard, Simone Ferraro, J. Colin Hill, John P. Hughes, Patricio A. Gallardo, Martine Lokken, Amanda MacInnis, Jeffrey McMahon, Mathew S. Madhavacheril, Frederico Nati, Laura B. Newburgh, Michael D. Niemack, Lyman A. Page, Antonella Palmese, Bruce Partridge, Eduardo Rozo, Eli Rykoff, Maria Salatino, Alessandro Schillaci, Neelima Sehgal, Cristóbal Sifón, Chun-Hao To, Ed Wollack, Hao-Yi Wu, Zhilei Xu, Michel Aguena, Sahar Allam, Alexandra Amon, James Annis, Santiago Avila, David Bacon, Emmanuel Bertin, Sunayana Bhargava, David Brooks, David L. Burke, Aurelio C. Rosell, Matias Carrasco Kind, Jorge Carretero, Francisco Javier Castander, Ami Choi, Matteo Costanzi, Luiz N. da Costa, Juan De Vicente, Shantanu Desai, Thomas H. Diehl, Peter Doel, Spencer Everett, Ismael Ferrero, Agnès Ferté, Brenna Flaugher, Pablo Fosalba, Josh Frieman, Juan García-Bellido, Enrique Gaztanaga, Daniel Gruen, Robert A. Gruendl, Julia Gschwend, Gaston Gutierrez, Will G. Hartley, Samuel R. Hinton, Devon L. Hollowood, Klaus Honscheid, David J. James, Tesla Jeltema, Kyler Kuehn, Nikolay Kuropatkin, Ofer Lahav, Marcos Lima, Marcio A. G. Maia, Jennifer L. Marshall, Paul Martini, Peter Melchior, Felipe Menanteau, Ramon Miquel, Robert Morgan, Ricardo L. C. Ogando, Francisco Paz-Chinchón, Andrés Plazas Malagón, Eusebio Sanchez, Basilio Santiago, Vic Scarpine, Santiago Serrano, Ignacio Sevilla-Noarbe, Mathew Smith, Marcelle Soares-Santos, Eric Suchyta, Molly E. C. Swanson, Tamas N. Varga, Reese D. Wilkinson, Yuanyuan Zhang, Jason E. Austermann, James A. Beall, Daniel T. Becker, Edward V. Denison, Shannon M. Duff, Gene C. Hilton, Johannes Hubmayr, Joel N. Ullom, Jeff Van Lanen, Leila R. Vale, DES Collaboration, ACT Collaboration
Published: 2020-08-26 16:47:01+00:00
Updated: 2020-08-26 16:47:01+00:00
DOI: 10.3847/1538-4357/ac0bbc
arXiv ID: http://arxiv.org/abs/2008.11663v1
arXiv URL: http://arxiv.org/pdf/2008.11663v1
Categories: astro-ph.GA
Author Position: 7

Abstract:
We measure the projected number density profiles of galaxies and the
splashback feature in clusters selected by the Sunyaev--Zeldovich (SZ) effect
from the Advanced Atacama Cosmology Telescope (AdvACT) survey using galaxies
observed by the Dark Energy Survey (DES). The splashback radius for the
complete galaxy sample is consistent with theoretical measurements from
CDM-only simulations, and is located at $2.4^{+0.3}_{-0.4}$ Mpc $h^{-1}$. We
split the sample based on galaxy color and find significant differences in the
profile shapes. Red galaxies and those in the green valley show a
splashback-like minimum in their slope profile consistent with theoretical
predictions, while the bluest galaxies show a weak feature that appears at a
smaller radius. We develop a mapping of galaxies to subhalos in $N$-body
simulations by splitting subhalos based on infall time onto the cluster halos.
We find that the location of the steepest slope and differences in the shapes
of the profiles can be mapped to differences in the average time of infall of
galaxies of different colors. The minima of the slope in the galaxy profiles
trace a discontinuity in the phase space of dark matter halos. By relating
spatial profiles to infall time for galaxies of different colours, we can use
splashback as a clock to understand galaxy quenching. We find that red galaxies
have on average been in their clusters for over $3.2 ~\rm Gyrs$, green galaxies
about $2.2 ~\rm Gyrs$, while blue galaxies have been accreted most recently and
have not reached apocenter. Using the information from the complete radial
profiles, we fit a simple quenching model and find that the onset of galaxy
quenching in clusters occurs after a delay of about a gigayear, and that
galaxies quench rapidly thereafter with an exponential timescale of $0.6$ Gyr.